LEADING DISRUPTIVE CHANGE BRIEF #5
This is the seventh time I have taught Leading Disruptive Change. And the seventh different
summary note I have written. This one has the fewest changes from previous notes … either a sign
that we’re collectively getting closer to figuring it all out, or it is time to reboot and remix and see
what new stuff emerges.
The text that follows covers the six propositions, eleven practices and twenty-three tools we
discussed in class.1 Before that, a couple of reflections …
Brendan connected the class to the line of Tuck’s mission: “LEADERS have the ability to craft a
compelling vision for the future and to guide execution with and through other people.” Yes. Take a
future-back frame to amplify weak signals and use history as a catalyst to create an inspiring view
of the future. And recognize that getting there requires … all of the things we talked about.
Bruce eloquently summed up his view of the class in a note to me: I came to this class with
questions and skepticism as I often find myself struggling with identifying and implementing
imperative changes within my organization, from my past career when I was a
founder/entrepreneur. Throughout the nine sessions, I realized that instead of trying to find the
"right" answer and bet on it, leaders have to deal with the fog, uncertainty, and chances of failure.
What we can do is to (1) acknowledge that changes should be constant (2) it's important to take a
systematic approach in identifying and implementing changes (3) be aware of the ghosts and
unspoken voices in the room/organization (4) providing psychological safety and empowering other
people to drives changes can go a long way... (and more).
Clay used the metaphor of lenses. He said his wife Christine used to joke he had the disruptive
diagram etched onto his glasses. My INSEAD program also used the metaphor, saying that it gave
us night vision goggles so we could see what lurked in the shadow. More than anything else, I hope
this class provides you with (1) a sense that there is more to the story, (2) the desire to pause and
understand what that more is, (3) a sense of lenses to see what you would otherwise miss. All of
that in service of the line from How Will You Measure Your Life?
Management is the most noble of professions if it’s practiced well. No other occupation offers as
many ways to help others learn and grow, take responsibility and be recognized for
achievement, and contribute to the success of a team.
Ok, that’s enough throat clearing. Onto the good stuff.

1 For those scoring at home, the winter had six propositions (though in different order, I did paradox mindset in

Class 4 in the winter), twelve practices, and twenty-one tools. I have a core set that are definitely covered, and
then the rest depend on where the universe takes us.

This note was prepared as the basis for class discussion. No part of this publication may be reproduced,
stored in a retrieval system, used in a spreadsheet, or transmitted in any form or by any means—
electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise—without the permission of Dartmouth
College.
© 2025 Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved.

LDC SPRING 2025
THE SIX PROPOSITIONS OF LEADING DISRUPTIVE CHANGE
Proposition I: You need to lead through fog.
Technologies are advancing exponentially, lines between industries are blurring, expectations of
consumers, employees, and stakeholders are shifting, and global shocks are happening with
increased frequency. It is the era of predictable unpredictability, or what The Economist dubbed
“permavucalotion.”
The forever normal of constant change places leaders in a thick fog. Data to justify making a
decision comes in when it is too late to make a decision. Yesterday’s strengths become
tomorrow’s weaknesses.
In this fog, leaders must confront complex challenges that feel paradoxical. Pursue purpose by
embracing sustainability and maximize profits by extracting and exploiting resources. Protect the
present and create the future. Enable empowerment and autonomy and decisively lead in new
directions. Build a high-performance meritocracy and provide equitable opportunities and
outcomes.
You want to be a wise, decisive leader that betters the world through business? You need to lead
through fog.
Proposition II: You need to understand the particular nature of adaptive challenges.
Some problems are technical in nature. There is a best answer. There is expertise that can solve it.
Your job as a leader, therefore, is to build (or find) the expertise, and solve the problem.
In the fog you find adaptive challenges that have no clear best answer. They are messy. There is the
possibility of loss and the certainty of struggle. Learning to read sheet music is a technical
challenge. Playing in a jazz band is an adaptive one. Acing a test is a technical challenge. Acing a
relationship is an adaptive one. Adaptive challenges can sneak up on you. For example,
implementing a new IT system feels like a technical challenge. But a new IT system typically
changes the way work flows and shifts power dynamics. These are classic tipoffs of an adaptive
challenge.
Disruptive change is a highly adaptive challenge. A disruptive innovaiton transforms what exists or
creates what doesn’t by making the complciated simple and the expensive affordable. It combines
three “Ps”: purposeful tradeoffs (less raw performance, more conveinece, accessibility,
affordabiltiy), a protected starting point (amongst customers happy to receive said tradeoffs), and a
powerful business model that inhibits incubment response. There isn’t a single best way to
navigate disruptive change. There is the possibiltiy of loss. There is the certainy of struggle. A
textbook adaptive challenge.
Proposition III: Technical solutions are necessary but insufficient to solve adaptive challenges.
In the IHC case, we talked about five technical tools to drive transformation, building off research
and writing in Dual Transformation, a 2017 book I co-authored with Clark Gilbert and Mark Johnson.
1. Future-back strategy: Clear vision of the future and clear choices about how to strengthen
the core and build new businesses.

Page 2

LDC SPRING 2025
2. Organization design: Structures that are consistent with and support the future-back
strategy, with a particular focus on how to build and share capabilities across core and new
businesses (“the capabilities link”).
3. Enabling systems: Processes and systems to effectively measure and manage a portfolio
of strategic initiatives.
4. Classic change management: Investment to manage the process of change via leadership
role modeling, addressing organizational blockers, and getting small wins.
5. Communication: Clear, consistent, compelling communication of the vision and key
strategic choices that help ensure organizational alignment / conviction.
I went through these quickly, as you either have learned or will learn about versions of these in your
other classes. You need to do these things. You can’t succeed without them.
But they are insufficient.
As Brené Brown notes, “Leaders must either invest a reasonable amount of time attending to fears
and feelings or squander an unreasonable amount of time trying to manage ineffective and
unproductive behavior.” Technical tools provide no more than 49% of the final answer. As we went
through the class, we built up the adaptive challenges to each of those five areas and discussed
ways to overcome them.
Adaptive Challenge

LDC Answer

Future-back strategy

False consensus

Strategic sparring sessions

Organization design

Status quo bias

Adaptive space and/or culture
of innovation

Enabling system

Ambiguity effect

Emergent strategy

Ghosts

BEANs

Identity threat

Change to remain unchanged

Classic change management
Communication

Proposition IV: Solving adaptive challenges requires inducing and managing discomfort.
Stare, once again, at perhaps my favorite chart (adapted from The Practice of Adaptive Leadership
by Heifetz, Grashow & Linsky, 2009):

Page 3

LDC SPRING 2025

Learning comes when we are uncomfortable. No
discomfort, no learning. That means leaders must
purposefully make their organizations uncomfortable
if they want to change them. Too much discomfort,
however, and people look for relief. That shows up as
“work avoidance.” Set up a committee (“other” the
problem). Re-organize (even if that almost never
works). Hire a consultant. Turn them into a scapegoat.
Find someone else to blame. Politicians. Regulators.
Activist investors. Passive long-term investors.
External events. Whatever it takes to avoid the
discomfort. The ”hero” systems psychodynamics
paper called these “social defenses.” They are very
real.
Your job as a leader is to manage this discomfort.
Think of the athletic training metaphor we talked
about in class. Train. Rest. Recover. Repeat.
Throughout class we talked about various tools to
help with this. Psychological safety. Purposeful play.
Premortems. Blameless postmortems. I sometimes
think about just using this chart to guide the entire
class. If you master it, you go a long way to mastering
how to lead disruptive change.
I have no idea what the HI-BBORANG is in the AI-generated image. The rest I think is pretty sweet.

Page 4

LDC SPRING 2025
Proposition V: Go deep to find the real problem.
By the time the data are clear, it is too late (information-action paradox). Seek early warning signs
of disruptive change. Use models and frameworks to amplify them. And recognize that your
success in helping others see them and act on them requires going deeper.
Kurt Lewin teaches us that human behavior is a function of a person and their environment. Culture
is not what you see or what people say, it is what people do and why they do it. The deeper you go,
the more you find that every organization has ghosts. Past traumas. Invisible patterns. Fear of
identity loss. Spike into the organization’s subconscious to find them.
Then, remember that every individual (including you!) has their own “immunity to change.” Spike
into your own subconscious to find yours. The work described in the class is hard. If you are
focusing on the wrong issue, you will get stuck or overload your organization.
Proposition VI: Both/and it with a paradox mindset.
Wendy K. Smith and Marianne Lewis define paradoxes as persistent, interdependent
contradictions. In the course we discussed philosophical paradoxes, such as the Ship of Theseus
and Abilene paradoxes, and more practical paradoxes, such as the information-action paradox
(data are only conclusive when it is too late to act) and paired issues that appear difficult to pursue
simultaneously such as work/life, planet/purpose, and sustain/disrupt.
Now, the paradoxes of adaptive change are not truly paradoxes because the right mindset and
approach can overcome them, but they often look and feel like them. 2 Therefore, a paradox
mindset that relishes these kinds of challenges, that seeks to turn either/ors into both/ands (or
more/thans), is a critical enabler of success.
In class, I shared that research shows that even simple exposure to the elements of the paradox
mindset inventory helps to boost creativity. And my post-class note suggested three other ways to
build a paradox mindset:
1. Go on a paradox quest. Purposefully do something against type. New experiences provide
new frames and perspectives. For example, if you get offered an international assignment,
say yes.
2. Shift perspectives. Take on a different persona. Shift your time frame. If you are in a big
company imagine being in a startup. If you are in a startup company imagine being in a big
one. Generative AI is a phenomenal tool to do this easily.
3. Do thought experiments where you purposefully impose or remove constraints. What if
money wasn’t an object? What if you had zero dollars? What if you were barred from selling
your core product? How does the answer change if the time frame is a minute, day, week,
month, year, decade, or century?

2 This was the subject of the thesis of my Executive Master in Change program.

https://flora.insead.edu/fichiersti_wp/InseadEMCtheseswave31/97995.pdf if you are really interested. I’m not
offended if you are not. There’s a shorter article that gets to the highlights:
https://sloanreview.mit.edu/article/the-hidden-opportunity-in-paradoxes/.

Page 5

LDC SPRING 2025
ELEVEN PRACTICES TO LEAD DISRUPTIVE CHANGE
What’s the difference between a “practice” and a “tool” you might wonder? It’s fuzzy, for sure, but
a practice to me is a level higher, it is as much a way of thinking as it is a specific set of steps or a
checklist. I sometimes brand these paradoxical practices … but they aren’t truly paradoxical. They
are things that again feel counterintuitive, oxymoronic, or sometimes even silly.
In this run of Leading Disruptive Change we covered …
A. Act when the data tells you not to (KWM). Amplify weak signals to preempt ending up on a
burning platform.
B. Lead by letting go (Pampers & Shiseido) and enable experiments to generate convincing
data. As Scott Cook from Intuit said, “We want our leaders to be coaches and facilitators,
not decision makers. The experiments that the team runs should provide the data to help
the team make decisions, so the leader doesn’t have to.”
C. Hear the voice that doesn’t speak (IHC). Your team is less aligned than it appears. Avoid the
Abilene paradox by acting like an anthropologist to understand how people really feel.
D. Disagree to agree (IHC). Linda Hill from Harvard Business School says, “You don’t get
innovation without diversity and conflict, and that means leaders need to build a capability
for creative abrasion.” So, use strategic sparring sessions—data-informed dialogues that
feature battles of assumptions vs. beliefs (don’t start sentences with “I”!) and techniques
such as walk the line—to surface and address misalignment. Remember the power of the
discussion about Tuck Nice vs. Tuck Kind!
E. Change to remain unchanged (Shiseido): Develop a “historical consciousness” that might
bound your imagination but helps overcome hidden fear of identity change.
F. Find comfort in discomfort (Post-observation activity discussion). Borrow techniques from
the military and athletics to find calm in the chaos of uncertainty. Deliberate practice,
mentalization, reflection, pausing, breathing, and journaling are all effective ways to do
this.
G. Slow down to speed up (Post-observation activity discussion): The “wild boar” video
highlighted the difference between the NFL players, who turned and ran when they heard a
wild boar, and the FBI, who stopped to assess the situation. Taking the time to understand
circumstances or give space to find the real problem is often a key to success. As William
James noted, “The greatest weapon against stress is our ability to choose one thought over
another.”
H. Forget to learn (Post-observation activity discussion). The hardest people to teach new
things are the smartest people. That’s partially because they have the most to unlearn, and
partially because they aren’t used to the struggle that goes along with learning. Remember
the backwards bike video. It took Destin Sandlin eight months of careful practice to learn
how to ride it; it took his young son two weeks. You have to forget before you can learn (this
connects to Vijay Govindarajan’s famous three-box framework!).

Page 6

LDC SPRING 2025
I.

Fail to succeed (Pampers). Disruptive success comes from following an emergent strategy,
where you need to expect and celebrate deviations. Tools like premortems, postmortems,
and failure resumes help to make you adept in ambiguity.

J. Decisively hedge (Pampers). Every idea is partially right and partially wrong. Take action but
leave room for iteration by running a controlled experiment. Do it with the discipline of a
scientist where you have a hypothesis (what you expect will happen), design an experiment
with an objective (the purpose of your test), make a prediction (as specific as possible to
maximize learning potential), and execute in a way that allows you to track and measure
your prediction. You never know for sure, so have HOPE!
K. See the invisible (DBS). The biggest barriers to change are the ones that you can’t see. What
do people really think? What do they really feel? Draw out and disarm the ghosts inhibiting
change. The word draw is intentional – one technique that we talked about a bit in class was
using drawing and images to pull things out from the subconscious. It works.
Others practices that didn’t come up in class but are also fun …
Be a skeptical optimist … deliberately wander … destroy to create … be an optimistic pessimist …
go backwards to go forwards … liberate with constraints … negate to affirm … quit to start …
release to control … shift lenses to see clearly … transform to sustain … value the invaluable …
when in doubt, take a stand … zoom out to see the small picture.
TWENTY-THREE TOOLS TO LEADING DISRUPTIVE CHANGE
We talked about 23 tools in class (in varying degrees of depth). The table below describes the tools
and provides a reference visual. It also includes a link to relevant material, where appropriate. The
tools appear in alphabetical order.
TOOL

REFERENCE VISUAL

Adaptive Checklist
Three signs suggest a challenge is
adaptive.
1. There is not a single best
answer
2. There is the possibility
someone will lose
3. There is a certainty that
people will struggle
The image is old school AI’s finest.

Page 7

LDC SPRING 2025

TOOL

REFERENCE VISUAL

Adaptive Space
An organizational construct to
bridge the gap between “explore”
and “exploit,” that has autonomy,
thoughtful connections to the core
business, and different metrics
(learning vs. earning), with disputes
arbitrated by top leaders (who bias
towards the new).
Adaptive Support
Hands-on support from multiple
angles (teacher, coach, consultant,
therapist) to help to identify and
address hidden assumptions &
barriers to change. Adaptive
support seeks engagement in what
can be difficult, emotional topics
and creates space and time for
people to process change.

Advice / Answers

How to Think

Objectivity

Confidence

Associative Thinking
Using images and analogies to spot
hidden connections between
items. Steve Jobs was once asked
what made him so creative.
“Creativity is just connecting
things. When you ask creative
people how they did something,
they feel a little guilty because they
didn’t really do it, they just saw
something.”

Page 8

LDC SPRING 2025

TOOL

REFERENCE VISUAL

BEANs
Behavior Enablers, Artifacts and
Nudges are “reinforced rituals” that
overcome inertia and encourage
new habits. Remember to:
• Be specific about desired
behaviors and blockers.
• Borrow ideas from others.
• Keep it simple, fun, and
memorable.
• Connect into key systems.
For more, see “Breaking Down the
Barriers to Innovation.”
Blameless Postmortems
After something bad happens, seek
to find out why something bad
happened instead of who did
something wrong. Even if someone
DID do something wrong, ask what
led to the mistake (e.g., poor
training, lack of control
mechanisms). The picture is David
Coulthard, whose story I told in
class to illustrate the point.
Early Warning Signs of Disruptive
change
A checklist to identify signs of
disruptive change early enough to
allow action.
For more, see LDC Brief #1.

Page 9

LDC SPRING 2025

TOOL

REFERENCE VISUAL

Emergent Strategy / First Mile
tools
Ways to identify and manage
strategic assumptions, enabled by
the mindset that the right strategy
for an early-stage idea is unknown
and unknowable.
For more, see LDC Brief #4.
Failure Resume
The “greatest hits” of your failures,
describing what the failure was,
why it was a failure, and what you
learned from it. The inevitable
lesson is that failure is rarely fatal
and indeed helps to shape who we
are. The image is a couple lines
from my failure resume.
For more see this link.
Fair Process
People prefer procedural justice,
where they feel like the process is
fair (they have a chance to share
their perspective and that
perspective is considered), to
distributive justice, where they feel
like the results are fail. Process
over outcomes! Image is from an
INSEAD knowledge article about
fair process.

Page 10

LDC SPRING 2025

TOOL
Ghost Identification Guide
Questions to identify the presence
of ghosts “haunting” efforts to drive
change.

REFERENCE VISUAL
Type of ghost

Description

Influence

Diagnostic questions

Past

Historical trauma
that continues to
have current
impact

Associations to
past trauma
trigger defense
mechanisms

1. What story is everyone afraid to talk about?

An invisible
pattern in rituals
such as
budgeting,
project, decision
meetings, or
performance
reviews

Deeply imprinted
patterns are
invisible to
insiders and
therefore hard to
overcome

1. What might an outsider see that an insider
might miss?

Fear of change
efforts that
invalidate an
organization’s
self-identity

Defensive
reactions to
change efforts
that are
unconsciously
perceived to be
self-destructive

1. What words do people use to identify
themselves?

Present

For more see “What Lies Beneath.”
Future

2. What story can’t everyone stop talking about?
3. What past leader’s presence is still felt today?

2. What function’s voice carries the most weight
in key meetings?
3. What unstated criteria guide participation and
decisions?

2. What historically made an organizational hero?
What are people proud of?
3. What potential changes affect people’s selfidentity and points of pride?

History ABCs
An organization’s history matters.
Left unexamined, it can serve as an
anchor that inhibits change.
Tapping into how change maintains
a connection to the past can turn it
into ballast that provides stability.
Bounded imagination creates a
catalyst for future growth.
How to Build a Paradox Mindset
Mechanisms to develop the ability
to turn either/ors into both/ands.
The picture shows my “paradox
quest” as a student at INSEAD in
my mid-40s. A paradox quest is a
purposeful effort to do something
against type and therefore
strengthen the ability to have
comfort with discomfort.
Immunity to Change
A framework to identify where an
individual or organization is
naturally protecting themselves
from change that feels harmful.
For more, see “The Real Reason
People Won’t Change.”

Page 11

LDC SPRING 2025

TOOL

REFERENCE VISUAL

Paradox Mindset Inventory
An academically grounded battery
of questions to identify the ability to
draw energy from tensions that also
spurs creativity when introduced.
For more, see the Paradox Mindset
Inventory.
Premortems
A thought experiment where you
ask about what could cause
something to fail. It is space to
catastrophize and think about the
worst possibilities and identify
lessons from a reference class of
previous efforts. The image is a premortem I did with a client that
helped it realize the biggest enemy
was internal
Psychological Safety
An environment where people feel
like they can speak openly without
fear of punishment and intelligent
failure is celebrated. The picture is
Amy Edmondson, whose research
identified the concept.
Purposeful Play
Here’s how I summarized it in an
MIT Sloan review article: “Make it
safe for your teams to play around
with new technologies. Give them
time, the tools, and maybe some
rough guidelines. But don’t set
specific objectives or demand
specific outcomes. Let them
explore and have fun. Do it with
them. Screw up. Smile. Share.”
Image is the playground spinner!

Page 12

LDC SPRING 2025

TOOL

REFERENCE VISUAL

Running Reflections
A reflection is a pause to check
assumptions, sense feelings, and
make hidden connections.
Materials for Session 6 contain a
checklist for running reflections.
The picture is one I took at the
Innosight offsite where I debuted
reflections as an activity.
Strategic Sparring Sessions
A way to surface and share differing
assumptions driving lack of group
alignment. Key enablers are a
common language for the
discussion, including “the goals
and bounds” of future business and
intentional design and approach.
For more, see “Building Consensus
Around Difficult Strategic
Decisions.”
Subconscious spike toolkit
A set of techniques to go beneath
the surface of an organization and
identify hidden barriers to change.
For more, see LDC Brief #3.

Page 13

LDC SPRING 2025

TOOL

REFERENCE VISUAL

Technical Toolkit
A set of tools drawn from Dual
Transformation to create the
condition where successful
transformation is possible.
Remember, these tools are
necessary but insufficient!
For more, see LDC Brief #2.
Trust Triangle
Diverse teams outperform nondiverse teams when there is trust.
Without trust, people revert to the
lowest common denominator,
which leads to underperform. Trust
comes when people do what they
say they will do (logic), are who they
are (authenticity), and act with
empathy.
For more see “Begin with Trust.”

Page 14

LDC SPRING 2025
GOING DEEPER PART ONE … THE LEADING DISRUPTIVE CHANGE READING LIST
Some of these are books that connect directly to concepts we discussed in class, some of these
are books I have just found to be particularly interesting or noteworthy on the broader theme of
leading disruptive change. If you want any more specific recommendations on a specific space, let
me know, there’s a lot more!
***
Scott D. Anthony, The First Mile: A Launch Manual for Getting Great Ideas to Market (Harvard
Business Review Press, 2014).
Scott D. Anthony, Clark Gilbert, and Mark Johnson, Dual Transformation: How to Reposition
Today’s Business While Creating the Future (Harvard Business Review Press, 2017)
Scott D. Anthony, Natalie Painchaud, Andy Parker, and Paul Cobban, Eat, Sleep, Innovate: How to
Make Creativity an Everyday Habit Inside Your Organization (Harvard Business Review Press, 2020).
Christian Busch, The Serendipity Mindset: The Art and Science of Creating Good Luck (Riverhead
Books, 2020).
Brené Brown, Dare to Lead: Brave Work. Tough Conversations. Whole Hearts (Random House
Publishing Group, 2018).
Ed Catmull with Amy Wallace, Creativity, Inc.: Overcoming the Unseen Forces That Stand in the
Way of True Inspiration (Random House Publishing Group, updated version 2023).
Clayton M. Christensen, The Innovator’s Dilemma: When New Technologies Cause Great Firms to
Fail (Harvard Business Review Press, 1997).
Clayton M. Christensen, James Allworth, and Karen Dillon, How Will You Measure Your Life?
(HarperCollins 2012).
Carol S. Dweck, Mindset: The New Psychology of Success (Random House, 2006).
Amy Edmondson, Right Kind of Wrong: The Science of Failing Well (Simon Element, 2023).
Amy Edmondson, The Fearless Organization: Creating Psychological Safety in the Workplace for
Learning, Innovation, and Growth (Wiley, 2018).
Bent Flyvbjerg, Dan Gardner, How Big Things Get Done: The Surprising Factors That Determine the
Fate of Every Project, from Home Renovations to Space Exploration and Everything In Between
(Crown Currency, 2023).
Frances X. Frei and Anne Morriss, Unleashed: The Unapologetic Leader's Guide to Empowering
Everyone Around You (Harvard Business Review Press, 2020).
Robert Frost, The Poetry of Robert Frost.
W. Timothy Gallwey, Inner Game Of Tennis, 50th Anniversary Edition (Random House, 2024).
Adam Grant, Think Again: The Power of Knowing What You Don’t Know (Viking, 2021).
Ronald Heifetz, Alexander Grashow, and Marty Linksy, The Practice of Adaptive Leadership: Tools
and Tactics for Changing Your Organization and the World (Harvard Business Review Press, 2009).
J. Doyne Farmer, Making Sense of Chaos (Yale University Press, 2024)

Page 15

LDC SPRING 2025
Bob Johansen, Full-Spectrum Thinking: How to Escape Boxes in a Post-Categorical Future (BerrettKoehler Publishers, 2020).
Mark W. Johnson and Josh Suskewicz, Lead from the Future: How to Turn Visionary Thinking Into
Breakthrough Growth (Harvard Business Review Press, 2020).
Robert Kegan and Lisa Laskow Lahey, Immunity to Change (Harvard Business Review Press, 2009).
Dacher Keltner, Awe: The New Science of Everyday Wonder and How It Can Transform Your Life
(Penguin Press, 2023).
Hasard Lee, The Art of Clear Thinking: A Stealth Fighter Pilot's Timeless Rules for Making Tough
Decisions (St. Martin’s Press, 2023).
Donella H. Meadows, Thinking in Systems: A Primer (Chelsea Green Publishing, 2008).
Katy Milkman, How to Change: The Science of Getting from Where You Are to Where You Want to
Be (Portfolio, 2021).
Ethan Mollick, Co-Intelligence: Living and Working with AI (Portfolio, 2024).
Kyle Nel, Nathan Furr, and Thomas Zoëga Ramsø, Leading Transformation: How to Take Charge of
Your Company’s Future (Harvard Business Review Press, 2018).
Wendy K. Smith and Marianne Lewis, Both/And Thinking: Embracing Creative Tensions to Solve
Your Toughest Problems (Harvard Business Review Press, 2022).
David Spiegelhalter, The Art of Uncertainty: How to Navigate Chance, Ignorance, Risk and Luck
(Pelican, 2024).
Philip E. Tetlock and Dan Gardner, Superforecasting: The Art and Science of Prediction (Crown,
2015).

GOING DEEPER PART TWO … PODCASTS AND VIDEOS
Someone asked in a post-class comment about podcasts to explore the topics in class more
deeply. Here’s a few, and links to a couple videos as well. I’d love to make this an organic list, so if
you find something that speaks to you, let me know!
Brené Brown and Linda Hill. Living with Purpose in the Digital Age
https://brenebrown.com/podcast/leading-with-purpose-in-the-digital-age/
Brené Brown and Amy Webb, What’s Coming (and What’s Here)
https://brenebrown.com/podcast/whats-coming-and-whats-here/
Me with Amy Edmondson, Right Kind of Wrong
https://thedisruptivevoice.libsyn.com/119-right-kind-of-wrong-a-conversation-with-amyedmondson
Ezra Klein and Jonathan Haidt, Our Kids Are the Least Flourishing Generation We Know Of
https://www.nytimes.com/2025/04/01/opinion/ezra-klein-podcast-jonathan-haidt.html
The Economist with Adam Grant, “Can we learn to disagree better?”
https://www.economist.com/podcasts/2022/08/04/can-we-learn-to-disagree-better

Page 16

LDC SPRING 2025
Me with Pontus Siren and Utsav Bhatt, The Information-Action Paradox—and What to Do About It
https://thedisruptivevoice.libsyn.com/90-the-information-action-paradox-and-what-to-do-aboutit-a-conversation-with-scott-anthony-pontus-siren-and-utsav-bhatt
Me on Harvard Business Review, To Reinvent Your Firm, Do Two Things at the Same Time
https://hbr.org/podcast/2017/04/to-reinvent-your-firm-do-two-things-at-the-same-time
How a New Leader Broke Through a Culture of Abuse, Blame, and Criticize
https://hbr.org/podcast/2019/09/how-a-new-leader-broke-through-a-culture-of-accuse-blameand-criticize
HBR on Leadership Lynn Perry Wooten, How to Prepare For—And Lead Through—a Crisis
https://hbr.org/podcast/2025/03/how-to-prepare-for-and-lead-through-a-crisis
Videos:
•
•
•

Me and Ed Catmull: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ts3C8fYgWgw
Me and Berkeley Cox (KWM): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lNvkBD4Sabk
The Innosight work at ASO: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F4btyHM2480

Page 17

